Hello and welcome to this new tutorial now that we've given the ability to dream Well we have to implement
the training operations because indeed what we've just done so far is you know build a brain for the
eye and then at some point of course we have to train the AI.
And what we're about to implement are exactly the training operations that you know will reduce the
loss between the predictions and the target.
So the predictions are exactly self-taught.
Why.
Because these are the output of the V8 immoral and the targets are of course self-taught X because they
are the real images.
And in order to reconstruct some images there are the closest to reality.
Well during the training of the Wii will have to reduce that loss between the predictions the reconstructed
images solve that Y and the targets are the real images subtopics.
So that's exactly what we'll do in this new code section.
But the laws will actually be very complex.
It is actually the sum of two losses.
The mean square error last and the callback libelous Caylus.
So here we go.
If you're ready let's do this let's implement the train operations and the further we're going to do
is make sure that we are in training mode and the way we're going to do that is of course by using our
is training variable which is indeed a variable of our object.
And so the way we're going to start here is with an F and then self no we're calling the object and
we're taking that is training variable of our object.
And then Colonne because this means exactly if self that training equals equals.
All right.
And so if that's the case if we are indeed in training mode Well here we go.
Let's implement one by one the training operations.
And so the first thing we're going to do now is define a new variable which is once again an object
variable which is going to be a global step of gradient descent you know a step of the update by the
optimizer to reduce that loss basically with stochastic gradient isn't the optimizer that will reduce
the loss.
For this we will be in advanced greatness and technique and it's a global step and to define that step
of great in the sense we will do that with that sense of variable object which we can create by first
call intensively of course and then by going from sense of flow the variable class.
Here we go.
First one variable inside which as you can see we can input many arguments.
The first one is the initial value an initial value will be zero as the first index of the first step.
Then we're going to give a name to that variable object by tensor flow.
And this name will be simply in quotes.
Global step right.
And then third argument which will be this one trainable and which will be initialized to false.
All right so that was for the first step.
Setting the global state variable object by tenths of flow.
And now here we go with the losses.
And so we're going to start with the simplest one which is the very well known mean square error last.
But we're going to compute that from scratch in two steps using the tensor functions.
So here we go first let's create a variable for that last.
So we're going to call this our core loss and that will be the mean square.
Errorless And so we're going to compute it in two steps.
The first step will be to calculate the sum of the square differences between the predictions and the
target.
And remember the predictions are set that why the reconstructed images and the targets are set that
X the original real images.
And so what we're going to do here is first Coltons a flow then from tens of through we're going to
take to reduce on this score some.
Here we go.
Function inside which of course we're going to put the square differences.
And so how do we take first squares.
Well we take them with a sense of flow and using the square function inside which of course we are going
to input the difference between the target so that x the original real images minus the predictions
which are the reconstructed images self-taught Why perfect.
But then that's not all we have to specify on which indices we want to operate these sums and actually
know since x and y both have three dimensions corresponding to remember the width the height and the
R.G. dimension.
Because we're dealing with colored images.
Well right now we'll have to specify that we are something along the three axis corresponding to these
three dimensions.
And therefore what we're going to add here as the second argument of to reduce some function is reduction
indices equals in square brackets.
The three indexes of the three dimensions the three axis.
And remember there is trap here.
The first index corresponds to the batched So that's not where we want to start with the first axis.
We'll have the next one.
The second axis will have the next two and the third axis corresponding to the R.G. dimension.
We'll have the next three.
And here we go.
Now we are summing the square differences along the three axis is perfect.
But that's the first part of that can be taken to mean square errorless.
Now of course we have to take the mean of these sums.
And again we're going to use that sense of the function.
And so I'm going to take that again because we're actually going to update our laws by taking its meaning
from the tense of your function.
Reduce mean and so right here I'm taking a sense of flow again.
Then reduce mean.
Here we go.
And inside we we're going to input very simply self that our loss and this will just compute the mean
of these sums as it is exactly that can be taken of the mean square airless.
Perfect.
So that was the easy step.
Now comes the pretty difficult step.
It is the accumulation of the K L plus callback libelous based of course on the callback labor divergence.
So we're not going to explain the formula we're just going to implement it.
It is very complex.
It is actually so complex that were implemented in three steps.
So here we go with the first step.
We're going to call this this time.
Self-doubt.
K.
L last and the first step will be to some one plus the values in the Lovemore dense layer minus the
squares of the values in the new dense layer minus the exponential of the values and a lot more dense.
Then all this multiplied by minus 0.5.
Actually we're going to start with this minus 0.5 times and then we take again from tensor flow to reduce
some function just to you know computer some.
And now we want to compute the sum of the three elements that I've mentioned.
One plus self that locavore.
So basically the values in the dense layer lover are then minus the squares of the myu dense layer.
So here I'm taking first the square function by tens of flow inside which I'm putting the values in
the self that new dense there and then as we said minus the exponential function by sense of flow.
So I'm taking that exp function as we took before of the LUGG var Denslow.
All right.
All this is what we are or something inside the Kalos but therefore we have to put this in one argument
because then comes the indices of the axes along which we want to do that some.
And so we have to specify this.
But this time it's going to be simple because the dense layer actually has two dimensions.
The first one corresponding to the Bache and the second one corresponding to the single time mention
of this one dimensional vertical tensor.
You know it's like a vertical vector.
So here the reduction in the indices is nothing else than what.
Okay perfect.
So we have done the toughest part.
Now what we're going to do is the second part of the competition of the K L us nor is it going to be
more simple because we're just going to take the maximum of that care to have just compute it.
You know this formula here.
And the key l tolerance which is one of our arguments here and also a variable object multiplied by
the set size.
So we're taking this maximum do entrancingly to the K L tolerance that we want to use to cap diskless
and that makes sense that's because if the loss is too small then the maximum of the last we computed
before and that K.L. tolerance will be equal to the K L tolerance and therefore is the less is too small.
Well we won't have to apply the gradients and you know a date the ways to reduce that part of the last
because that maximum will just be a constant.
So basically this is just a trick to save some computations of the gradient in case the loss is too
small.
And therefore in case there is not too much to optimize and so right now we're just going to update
the K.L. loss by taking the maximum function by tens of flow of that same K.L. loss that we've just
computed.
And as we've just said the K L tolerance multiplied by that that size.
Here we go.
Perfect.
So second part of the K L can be done.
And now third part.
The easiest one.
That's the good news.
We're just going to compute the mean again of that sum we can Puran the first step just like what we
did with the means quit air but of course the maximum of these two is this one here.
Well the mean will be equal to that same value here.
And if however the maximum is the key plus as we computed here well it will just take the mean of the
sum of all the values in these dense layers.
All right.
So let's do that quickly and efficiently actually we can do it this way.
I'm going to copy this then they say here and then just replace our loss by Kalos and say Here are those
by Kalos.
All right.
We did it.
We computed the Colback libelous.
Congratulations if you did that for the first time.
And now now that we both have the mean square error plus the plastic one and the Colback libelers Well
we're going to sum these two because actually our global us that will want to reduce in the global step
of great in this sense will be that some of these too.
Let's do this.
We're going to call that cell blood loss which will be the son of first the main square.
Our laws are laws and the callback labor laws this one perfect.
And now the rest will be very easy.
We'll just put our learning rate on and choosing a new variable called are what will set their rates
as sense of flow variable.
Again you know as an object of the voluble class I tend to flow.
Here we go.
And this is going to take of course our self learning rate which is already an existing viable object
learning rate.
And again we don't want yet the training will cause true value for the trainable argument but as for
the global step here will initialize that to falls perfect then we're going to create a variable for
optimizer which will be the atom optimizer.
You know I told you that it was B is the category in the sense optimizer.
And one of the best versions of the Kastigar innocent is the Adam optimizer.
So that's exactly what we're going to create.
And we can create it as an object of the atom optimized class but at an optimized class is a class of
the train module violence of flow.
And here we go from the train module buttons of we can get the atom optimized class as you can see here
and this and an optimizer class takes on the one argument which you might guess what it is that's why
we took the learning right before.
But we've made sure to set as a of your variable and that's because the optimizer class expects as its
argument the learning rate as an intensive variable.
So I'm basing that here and here we go.
Now we have our Adam optimizer.
All right.
So basically now we have everything to compute the gradients.
And speaking of computing the gradients Well that's exactly what we're going to do now.
So we're going to call our gradients grads and they will be the results of the compute Gretchen's method
by the atom optimizer.
So let's do this let's call this method from our self-taught optimizer object.
And from this object we're calling the method compute gradients.
And of course this method will take as arguments.
Well the last of which it wants to compute the gradients.
And this is of course Arliss here self.
That looks perfect.
All right.
So this computed the gradients but now we're going to apply our gradients on the US to indeed reduce
it by updating the weights in our variational our encode neural network according to how they contributed
to that last error.
And the way we're going to do this is by creating a new variable which will be exactly what we're doing
right now which is to implement the training operations because the Voivode we're going to create now
is exactly to train up volleyball which is exactly that step.
Upgrading does an operation which reduces that loss and updates to wait in this direction of less reduction.
And so to do that well we'd say first our optimizer But then this time from the optimizer we're going
to apply here it is the Apply gradient method which is going to take his arguments first to grad's and
Varas which are here the grads are gradients that we computed with the compute gradient method.
So Gretz first then as you can see the next one is global step and that's of course what we've created
here as a sense of flow of our will which represents the global step of great interest and with our
atom optimizer.
So let's just put you know global step equals self does global step and then finally as usual we can
give a name to that operation and we are going to call this in quote train step right a training step
of gradient descent all right.
And lastly and we have to get out of this if condition because we're done with the train operations.
But what I want to do is just some initialization of all the global variables we'll have for the.
And that's just because whenever we start the training we'll have to initialize everything with an initializer
that we're about to create.
And speaking of which we're going to call this self that minute which is going to be the result of a
sense of function that is global variables initialiser And let's not forget the parenthesis.
All right.
And that closes the section on the build graph method.
So the most important thing in this bill graph method is of course all this bar here where we build
the full architecture of the V.
Then this is just the train operations which I've wanted to include here so that you can see two losses
that you want to reduce and especially so that you understand that the targets are the original real
images of the X and the predictions are the reconstructed images of the Y.
So that gives you the essential but the most important for you is that you understand how we built this
essential component of the full well know the Wii and then three steps after you see some more theory
about the record a neural network and the mixture density network.
While same will build together that second essential element of the full world model which the NTN Arnon
So now you'll take a break with the code.
You have a lot more theory ahead of you.
So get some good energy because you want to stay focused on the essential.
And as soon as you're ready for more code well we'll implement together the NTN are in it.
So I can't wait to see you back on Step 8 when implementing the NBN Arnon.
And until then enjoy artificial intelligence.